hey guys it's Jason with keeping it
mobile today I've got the Huawei p8 Lite
this is a dual SIM mid-range phone with
one of the SIM slots being dual purpose
giving you the option use it for a
microSD card
I love how Huawei made this dual purpose
as I don't know anyone who uses two sims
but you have the option or you can add
more memory which I'm always a fan of
the p8 Lite is a 5 inch phone with a
720p screen and is powered by a
Snapdragon 615 CPU 2 gigabytes of RAM
and a 2200 mAh battery with a 13
megapixel camera on the back including
an F 2.2 aperture which is powered by a
BSI sensor from Sony and a front-facing
5 megapixel camera with an aperture of
f28 also supports all 4G LTE bands
within the US the paid light is a
two-tone color all plastic build coming
in either white with gold sides like I
have here or a black with silver sides
the back of the p8 light has a subtle
brushed texture not quite enough to help
with gripping but at this size holding
one-handed shouldn't be too difficult
for most people on the plus side it
won't show any fingerprints and it
should help hide any small scratches
along the top there's a glossy area
where the camera and the flash are
housed the p8 Lite has two SIM slots on
the right side the bottom tray holds a
micro SIM while the top tray holds a
micro SIM or SD card up to 32 gigabytes
depending on your needs above that is
the power button and then the volume
rocker both have a nice tactile feel and
are easy to distinguish from each other
even in the dark along the bottom you'll
find the micro USB charging port flanked
by two speaker grilles but only the left
one has a speaker in it which is
surprisingly loud and clear while the
right one houses the microphone I liked
Huawei's design choice here as it gives
a much more symmetrical and balanced
look on the top of the phone you'll find
the headphone jack which can use
headphones as a Nintendo
pick up local FM stations when they are
plugged in as well as another microphone
on the front is the 720p screen with
Gorilla Glass 3 which I find to be a bit
dim and dull if you go under about 70%
and might be a little difficult to view
in direct sun even at full brightness
but overall still has nice saturated
colors and looks pretty good
Huawei's custom version of Android is
called emotion UI or emui for short and
unlike most Android skins it doesn't
include an app drawer which most Android
loyalists will miss but switching
launchers is easy and most of us already
have a favorite custom launcher look
down and you'll notice the soft keys are
from lollipop
however the p8 Lite is launching with
KitKat but an update to lollipop is
promised for the future one of the cool
features in emotion UI is the timeline
for notifications which shows you what
time each of your notifications have
come in if you swipe over you'll find
the shortcuts and see that they have
included a flashlight toggle which is
nice because most do not and it's very
handy to have another option I love is
being able to add a button for the
notification shade to your soft keys at
the bottom
I know hallway isn't the only one to do
this but I really wish this was built
into Android if you look closely at the
icons you'll see that there are problems
with the ones that have transparencies
they're given a strange background this
is another quirk in the emotion UI but
can easily be fixed thanks to their
theming engine which is a great plus on
this phone it allows you to change the
appearance quick and easy another quirk
is some notifications in the shade or
white on gray and can be difficult to
read the only way to work around this is
by using a theme which makes the shade
dark
for mid-range phone the specs are decent
and you won't find much lacking in
performance even a newer game like
Mortal Kombat X runs just fine
it looks quite beautiful on this screen
however you might find
applo ting takes bit longer if you
compare it to a flagship but the only
real performance issue that bothered me
was the lag I noticed when hitting the
recent apps button battery life is
really good I always got a full day with
close to four hours screen time or above
while testing and that's probably due to
using a 720p panel and helped by emotion
your eyes protected apps feature which
if you ever have trouble getting
notifications with an app with your
screen off be sure to check that it's
protected in the settings there is a
built-in camera shortcut if you double
tap the volume down on the rocker by
default it snaps a photo but you can
change it to just open the camera like
I've done here by far the best part of
the p8 Lite is the 13 megapixel camera
you use tap to focus and you can even
lock the focus as well as having the
ability to lock exposure in the menu
you'll find shooting modes such as
panorama best shot audio note watermark
all focus and my favorite HDR Huawei
also offers a selection of live filters
for effects like sepia or black and
white which will work on the
front-facing camera as well
there is quite a bit of lag when
shooting an HDR but you are rewarded
with shark well exposed photos without
too much saturation for a mid-range
phone I was really impressed with the
quality especially in macros like this
photo of a bee I took which is actually
cropped in still it reveals a lot of
nice detail even in low-light the photo
still retain nice detail I'm glad to see
manufacturers aren't cutting corners on
cameras anymore these days something you
might have noticed is the menu icons
refuse to rotate if you hold it in
landscape weird - might annoy some but
didn't bother me too much
all in all always hardware is solid
if the quirks in the software don't
bother you then you'll get a phone with
a good camera and battery life and don't
forget they also offer you a two-year
warranty when you register get Huawei
comm